Search Inside Yourself is very much not my usual reading material, and while it is not a difficult read it did take me some effort to adjust to it. I had mixed rections to the first chapter. Some parts of it resonated with me: I definitely experience emotions as much physically as I do as an obviously psychological process, and I agree that recognising your emotional state can be an important way of adjusting your behaviour (that said, I don't think it's the only way and I think assumptions about what is desirable use of this need to be addressed - in some contexts expressions of anger can be appropriate or even necessary).
However my experience of meditation has not been positive, and while I think in part that's been due to bizarre and problematic leadership (see, for example, the high school geography teacher who tried to get us to commune with spirits so we'd have meaningful lives and never need to use drugs! (I think she was meant to be teaching us about glaciers or something)) I think mindfulness has been treated as something universally positive and helpful in a lot of fora recently. When something is presented in that way, it makes me feel sceptical.
That said, I'll give it another go. Who knows, I might surprise myself!

The "Inner Critic" video, on the other hand, strongly resonated. I had the type of experience which is pretty common among kids with learning disabilities. With what is called an "uneven development profile" - that is, finding some things significantly easier than average and some significantly harder, and not learning skills in the order that is typical - I encountered a lot of disbelief that I was having genuine difficulties and got marked as "lazy" or "disobedient" quite relentlessly. When I did well at something it was more often than not taken simply as a sign that I was definitely just not trying hard enough in other areas, leading me to hide or intentionally sabotage my achievements.
I have a much better understanding now, and have been able to find ways to either improve on or work around the areas I have difficulty with, but I'm well aware I've internalised a lot of those messages from childhood. 
The techniques in the video aren't new to me, but it served as a useful reminder that these feelings may become particularly apparent as I start learning new things in this course, and to work to get them under control.

The video on privilege, while simplistic, definitely made sense to me. As someone who has experienced significant privilege in some respects, and significant marginalisation in others, it's been very important to understand the systemic basis of these, rather than viewing them as individual successes or failings. I've read quite a few articles on privilege previously and they have helped me understand the experiences of others and to acknowledge my responsibility for working to change systems (such as racism) which I don't personally support but nevertheless benefit from my privileged place within (rather than just throwing my hands up in the air and saying "I'm not racist not my problem").
Privilege theory does have limitations, however, and I've also seen it used in very simplistic ways which erase the experience of multiply marginalised people, apply a US-centric understanding inappropriately or turn attention to isolated experiences and away from the systems that need to be changed.

